# What Are The Things That Come Under Instruction Set Architecture ?

1. How instructions are brought from memory into the processor
2. How They are executed
	1. Addressing modes

# Memory

Memory consists of millions of storage cells that can each store one bit. But it is pointless to read and write one bit, so most memory groups bits into fixed-size words. These could be anywhere between 16-128 bits.

#### 8 Bits is a Byte

Byte addressed memory gives address to every single byte. In that sense the byte addressing gives addresses for a word like 0, 4, 8, 12, etc.

Aligned word addressing means that the addresses that words start at is a multiple of the number of words in each byte. In this case, that means that the address of the word is a multiple of 4 since there are 4 bytes in each word.

In many numbers, each number is stored as a word and each character is stored as a single byte. 

# Instructions and Instruction Sequencing

A computer must have at least 4 types of instructions that are available.

1. Data transfer between register and memory locations
2. Arithmetic and logic decisions
3. Program sequencing and control
4. I/O Transfers

## Register Transfer Notation

To describe the transfer of information in this type of notation, you simply just make use of square brackets around the name of the register.

An instruction specifies an operation to be performed and the operands involved. Here, the operation part of it that specifies what type of operation is going to take place is known as the mnemonic.

## RISC And CISC Instruction Set Architecture

In RISC architecture, each instruction takes up exactly one word in memory. It is also assumed that the operands should already be loaded up in the register for faster execution times. This is more geared towards a pipelined processor for faster instruction times. 

This is known as the Reduced Instruction Set Architecture (RISC).

# RISC Instruction Set

1. Simple Addressing Modes
2. Each instruction fits into exactly one word
3. Fewer instructions in the instruction set
4. Arithmetic and logic operations can only be performed on processor registers
5. Load/Store architecture does not allow direct transfers from one memory location to another

# CISC Instruction Set

1. More complex instruction sets
2. More complex addressing modes
3. Arithmetic and logic operations can be performed on memory operands as well as operands in the processor registers
4. Transfers from one memory location to another by a single move instruction

> CISC is like "Baap ki Sadak Hai" ~ Tejas Bajaj

# Addressing Modes

The different ways for specifying the locations of the instruction operands are known as addressing modes. 

In RISC-Style processor, each instruction must fit into one memory word. This means that there are usually only 16 bits that reserved for the sake of a memory address (given that the word-size in the memory is of 32 bits.)

Each data operand is either stored in a register, or it is part of the memory. If in the case that it is part of the memory, then it will be stored as part of some word. This memory address may also be used in order to fetch the data.

1. Register Mode - Name of the register is given in the instruction
2. Absolute Mode - The operand's memory address is given

There is also the immediate mode in which the operand is directly given in the instruction itself. 

## Indirection and Pointers

In ***indirect mode***, the effective address of the operand is in the contents of a register that is specified in the instruction.

In ***Index mode***, the effective address of the operand is generated by adding some index to the address. Sign extension would need to be done if necessary. This is done simply by repeating the 15th bit from the right repeatedly for the remaining bits.

In Auto-increment mode, the effective address of the operand is in the contents of the register. After the register is accessed, its effective address is incremented at the end of the cycle.

The exact opposite happens in the case of the Auto-decrement mode except that the decrement happens before the register is used.

# Structure Of An Assembly Instruction

The first set of bits can be used for the OpCode (Operation Code). This is essentially the bit pattern that identifies what operation the processor must perform.

After that there is usually a space or a tab followed by the operands of that instruction. 

## Assembler Directives

1. ORIGIN: Tells the assembler where it needs to store the information that comes after it in the memory
2. DATAWORD: Tells to store some value at the given address
3. RESERVE: Tells to reserve some amount of memory without any value.
4. END: Tells the assembler that the assembly program has ended.

Most assembly programs require statements with the following format

Label: Operation Operands Comment

where the delimiter can be a space or some other appropriate delimiter as set forward by the assembler.

## Shift and Rotate Instructions

The only difference between the logical shift operations and the arithmetic shifting operations is that in the logical shift operations, no extra logic is used in duplicating the sign bit while this is taken care of in the sign bits.

Rotating with the carry is simply like as if there is one additional bit to the left of the register. Treat it the same way and carry on.

# Condition Codes

Whenever instructions generate results that are positive, negative, or zero, these are stored in the condition codes.

These are the NZVC flags for Negative, Zero, Overflow, and Carry flags respectively.

# Stack

# Routines

^e99cd8
